# Scope
---
Scope is a concept that determines where you can see or access a variable.
When an object is assigned to a variable, that variable points to some object and we can say that the variable (name) is _i_ bound to that object.
That object can be accessed using that name in various parts of a project -- but not just anywhere.

A variable is only available from inside the region it is created (_lexical scope_)

### Rules of Scope:
1. Name assignments will create or change local names by defaults
2. Named references, search at most, four scopes (LEGB rule):
		- Local
		- Enclosing
		- Global 
		- Built In
 3. In Python, variable scope(s) refer to:
		- [[#Local Scope]] 
		- [[#Global Scope]]
		- [[#nonlocal Scope]]
		- [[#Nested Scope]]

Related:
		- [[#Closures]]
		- [[#Decorators]]

## Local Scope:
A variable created inside a function belongs to the _local scope_ of that function and can only be used inside that function.
```py
def myfunc():
	x = 300		# x is a local variable
	print(x)

myfunc()
```
<br>

## Global Scope:
A variable created in the main body of the Python code (module / single-file) is a global variable and belongs to the global scope.
Global variables are available from within any scope in the same module / single-file.
```py
x = 300		# x is a global variable

def myFunc():
	print(x)

myfunc()
```

If you need to create a global variable, but are stuck in the local scope, you can use the [[global]] keyword.
The `global` keyword makes the variable accessible outside a local function.
```py
def myfunc():
	global x
	x = 300

myfunc()
```

You can also use `global` to change the value of a global variable inside a function:
```py
x = 300

def myfunc():
	global x
	x = 200

myfunc()
print(x)	# prints 200
```


## nonlocal Scope:
%% Return 1:10 Video 93 Python3: Deep Dive (Part 1 - Functional)%%
Defining function from inside another function:
```py
def outer_func():
	pass
	
	def inner_func():
		pass
		
	inner_func()

outer_func()

```


#### Local vs. Global Scope:
```py

x = 'outside'

def report():
	x = 'inside'
	return x
	
print(x) #will return 'outside' since report function isn't called
print(report())	#will return 'inside' since report function is being called

```

#### LEGB Examples:
```py
#LEGB examples

#Local
def report():
	x = 'local'
	print(x)
	
#Enclosing (Function within a Function)
x = 'This is Global Level'

def enclosing():
	x = 'Enclosing Level'
	
	def inside():
		print(x)
	inside()
	
enclosing()

#defines enclosing(), sets 'x', defines inside(), and then calls inside()


```
%%Return 8:30 Video 93 Python3: Deep Dive (Part 1 - Functional)%%

### Access Modifiers in other Programming Languages

In other programming languages, you can control the "visibility" of an attribute or method of a class using what we call **access modifiers**, special keywords that come with the language.

For example, **Java** has three access modifiers:

-   `public` - it has the widest scope. The element can be accessed anywhere in the program.
		Example: `public int a = 5;`

-   `protected` - the element is accessible within the same package (you can think of a package as a "folder") or within subclasses in different packages. 
		Example: `protected int a = 5;`

-   `private` - the element is only accessible within the same class. 
		Example: `private int a = 5;`

Java also has a default access when no keyword is used. In this case, the element is accessible within the same package.

There can be different access modifiers depending on the programming language. For more information on this topic, [please refer to this article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_modifiers).