# `*args` and `**kwargs`

Both `*args` and `**kwargs` in Python mean that a [[function]] can accept any number of [[argument]]s.
- `*args` refer to any number of regular arguments (e.g. - `myFunc(1, 2,3)`)
- `**kwargs` refer to any number of keyword arguments (e.g. - `myFunc(name="Matt")`)


### Variable number of arguments: *args

To start exploring variable argument lengths in Python functions, let’s take a look at a familiar function we have been using for a long time:

```py
print('This', 'is', 'the', 'print', 'function')
```

Notice how the `print()` function does not care how many arguments we pass to it. It has no expectation that we are going to pass in one argument or even a million! _So the question is, how does `print()` accomplish this?_

Well, in Python, there is an additional operator called the _unpacking operator_(`*`).The unpacking operator allows us to give our functions a variable number of arguments by performing what’s known as _positional argument packing_.

Let’s explore how it works by examining a basic function that utilizes the unpacking operator:
```py
def my_function(*args):  
	print(args)
```

If we called this function with random arguments:
```py
my_function('Arg1', 245, False)
```

Our output would show us what is inside of `*args`:
```py
('Arg1', 245, False)
```

Notice two things:
1. In our `print()` call, we simply use the name of `args` with the unpacking operator omitted. The name of `args` is completely arbitrary, and this example works just the same:
    
 ```py
 def my_function(*randomname):  
 	print(randomname)
 ```
    
2. Whatever name follows the unpacking operator (`*`) will store the arguments passed into the function in the form of a tuple. 
This allows our functions to accept any number of arguments just like the `print()` function we examined earlier. In this case, `args` has three values inside, but it can have many more (or fewer).


Example:
Build a restaurant application that takes orders from customers.
```py
tables = {

 1: {
 'name': 'Jiho',
 'vip_status': False,
 'order': 'Orange Juice, Apple Juice'
 },

 2: {},
 3: {},
 4: {},
 5: {},
 6: {},
 7: {},

}

print(tables)

  

def assign_table(table_number, name, vip_status=False): 
 tables[table_number]['name'] = name
 tables[table_number]['vip_status'] = vip_status
 tables[table_number]['order'] = ''

  

# Write your code below: 
def assign_and_print_order(table_number, *order_items):
 tables[table_number]['order'] = order_items
 for order in order_items:
 print(order)



assign_table(2, 'Arwa', True)
assign_and_print_order(2, 'Steak', 'Seabass', 'Wine Bottle')
print(tables)
```


### Variable number of arguments: **kwargs

Python doesn’t stop at allowing us to accept unlimited positional arguments; it also gives us the power to define functions with unlimited keyword arguments. The syntax is very similar but uses two asterisks `**` instead of one. We typically call these `kwargs` as a shorthand for keyword arguments.

Let’s examine a function that prints out some useful information about `kwargs` to see it in action:

```py
def arbitrary_keyword_args(**kwargs):  
	print(type(kwargs))  
	print(kwargs)  
	# See if there's an 'anything_goes' keyword arg and print it  
	print(kwargs.get('anything_goes')) 
	

arbitrary_keyword_args(this_arg='wowzers', anything_goes=101)
```

Would output:

```py
<class 'dict'>
{'this_arg': 'wowzers', 'anything_goes': 101}
101
```

We can observe two things:

-   `**kwargs` takes the form of a dictionary with all the keyword argument values passed to `arbitrary_keyword_args`. Since `**kwargs` is a dictionary, we can use standard dictionary functions like `.get()` to retrieve values.
    
-   Just as we saw with `*args`, the name of `kwargs` is completely arbitrary, and this example works exactly the same with the name becoming `data`:
    
```py
 def arbitrary_keyword_args(**data):  
 	...
```
    

Let’s practice using `**kwargs` to get a feel of how it works in a function!

#### Working with **kwargs:

Working with `**kwargs` looks very similar to its `*args` counterpart. Since `**` generates a standard dictionary, we can use iteration just like we did earlier by taking advantage of the `.values()` method. Here is an example:

```py
def print_data(**data):  
	for arg in data.values():    
		print(arg) 

print_data(a='arg1', b=True, c=100)
```

Would output:

```py
arg1True100
```

We can also combine our use of `**` with regular positional arguments. However, Python requires that all positional arguments come first in our function definition. Let’s examine how this works:

```py
def print_data(positional_arg, **data):  
	print(positional_arg)  
	for arg in data.values():    
		print(arg) 

print_data('position 1', a='arg1', b=True, c=100)
```

If we were to switch the position of `positional_arg` to come after `**data`, we would be met with a `SyntaxError`.

Let’s expand our restaurant application from the previous exercises to apply the flexibility of using`**kwargs` in our functions.




[What are Args and Kwargs in Python](https://betterprogramming.pub/what-are-args-and-kwargs-in-python-80a8167c836b)