# Writing a Text File 
---
## Creating a new file:
You can create files with the same `with open()` method.
```py
# script.py

with open('generated_file.txt', 'w') as gen_file:
	gen_file.write("What an incredible file!")
```

Here we pass the argument `'w'` to `open()` in order to indicate to open the file in write-mode. The default argument is `'r'` and passing `'r'` to `open()` opens the file in read-mode.

This code creates a new file in the same folder as `script.py` and gives it the text '*What an incredible file!.'*
It’s important to note that if there is already a file called 'generated_file.txt' it will completely overwrite that file, erasing whatever its contents were before. <br>

## Appending an existing file:
If you don't want to overwrite and existing file or create a new file, you can append to an existing file:
```txt
%% generated_file.txt %%
This was a popular file...
```

```py
# script.py
with open('generated_file.txt', 'a') as gen_file:
	gen_file.write("...and it still is")
```

In the code above we open a file object in the temporary variable `gen_file`. 
This variable points to the file `generated_file.txt` and, since it’s open in *append-mode*, adds the line ... and it still is as a new line to the file. 

If you were to open the file after running the script it would look like this:
```txt
%% generated_file.txt %%

This was a popular file...
... and it still is
```
Notice that opening the file in append-mode, with `'a'` as an argument to `open()`, means that using the file object’s `.write()` method appends whatever is passed to the end of the file in a new line. 

If we were to run `script.py` again, this would be what `generated_file.txt` looks like:
```txt
%% generated_file.txt %%

This was a popular file...
... and it still is
... and it still is
```
Notice that we’ve appended `"... and it still is"` to the file a second time. 
This is because in `script.py` we opened `generated_file.txt` in append-mode.