
## Mod 2 Summary
Hey everyone, I hope you've been enjoying the course so far. We're going to do check-ins like this one after each major topic to review what you've learned. 



First things first, what is cloud computing and what does AWS offer? We define cloud computing as the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. This means that you can make requests for IT resources like compute, networking, storage, analytics, or other types of resources, and then they're made available for you on demand. You don't pay for the resource upfront. Instead, you just provision and pay at the end of the month. 



AWS offers services and many categories that you use together to create your solutions. We've only covered a few services so far, you learned about Amazon EC2. With EC2, you can dynamically spin up and spin down virtual servers called EC2 instances. When you launch an EC2 instance, you choose the instance family. The instance family determines the hardware the instance runs on. 



And you can have instances that are built for your specific purpose. The categories are general purpose, compute optimized, memory optimized, accelerated computing, and storage optimized. 



You can scale your EC2 instances either vertically by resizing the instance, or horizontally by launching new instances and adding them to the pool. You can set up automated horizontal scaling, using Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling. 



Once you've scaled your EC2 instances out horizontally, you need something to distribute the incoming traffic across those instances. This is where the Elastic Load Balancer comes into play. 

EC2 instances have different pricing models. There is On-Demand, which is the most flexible and has no contract, spot pricing, which allows you to utilize unused capacity at a discounted rate, Savings Plans or Reserved Instances, which allow you to enter into a contract with AWS to get a discounted rate when you commit to a certain level of usage, and Savings Plans which apply to AWS Lambda, and AWS Fargate, as well as EC2 instances. 



We also covered messaging services. There is Amazon Simple Queue Service or SQS. This service allows you to decouple system components. Messages remain in the queue until they are either consumed or deleted. Amazon Simple Notification Service or SNS, is used for sending messages like emails, text messages, push notifications, or even HTTP requests. Once a message is published, it is sent to all of these subscribers. 



You also learned that AWS has different types of compute services beyond just virtual servers like EC2. There are container services like Amazon Elastic Container Service, or ECS. And there's Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, or EKS. Both of which are container orchestration tools. You can use these tools with EC2 instances, but if you don't want to manage that, you don't need to. 



You can use AWS Fargate, which allows you to run your containers on top of a serverless compute platform. Then there is AWS Lambda, which allows you to just upload your code, and configure it to run based on triggers. And you only get charged for when the code is actually running. No containers, no virtual machines. Just code and configuration. 

Hopefully that sums it up. Catch you in the next one.


---




are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. In computing, memory is a temporary storage area. It holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to complete actions. Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from storage into memory. This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.



In computing, a hardware accelerator is a component that can expedite data processing.
- 


In computing, the term input/output operations per second (IOPS) is a metric that measures the performance of a storage device. It indicates how many different input or output operations a device can perform in one second. Storage optimized instances are designed to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS to applications. 



You can think of input operations as data put into a system, such as records entered into a database. An output operation is data generated by a server. An example of output might be the analytics performed on the records in a database. If you have an application that has a high IOPS requirement, a storage optimized instance can provide better performance over other instance types not optimized for this kind of use case.

Later in this course, you will review AWS Cost Explorer, a tool that enables you to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. If you are considering your options for Savings Plans, AWS Cost Explorer can analyze your Amazon EC2 usage over the past 7, 30, or 60 days. AWS Cost Explorer also provides customized recommendations for Savings Plans. These recommendations estimate how much you could save on your monthly Amazon EC2 costs, based on previous Amazon EC2 usage and the hourly commitment amount in a 1-year or 3-year plan. 

A hallmark trait of a tightly coupled architecture is where if a single component fails or changes, it causes issues for other components or even the whole system. For example, if we have Application A and it is sending messages directly to Application B, if Application B has a failure and cannot accept those messages, Application A will begin to see errors as well. This is a tightly coupled architecture. 



A more reliable architecture is loosely coupled. This is an architecture where if one component fails, it is isolated and therefore won't cause cascading failures throughout the whole system. If we coded the application to use a more loosely coupled architecture, it could look as follows. 