# Underscores in Python

## Summary of Underscore Usage in Python
- Use a single underscore `_` as a placeholder.
- Use a single trailing underscore `stuff_` to avoid name conflicts.
- Use a single leading underscore `_stuff` to indicate privacy.
- Use a double leading underscore `__stuff` to avoid subclass overriding.
- Use double leading and trailing underscores `__stuff__` for dunder methods.


### Single Standalone Underscore:
The standalone underscore `_` has two uses:

#### Representing the Answer:
In a REPL or interactive interpreter, you can use `_` to refer to the last thing evaluated:
```sh
>>> 1 + 1
2

>>> _
2
```

#### An Insignificant Placeholder:
Consider this example:
```python
for num in range(10):
	print("Hello")
```

Although the example above works, `num` is never explicitly referenced. Instead you may use `_` as an insignificant placeholder:
```python
for _ in range(10):
	print("Hello")
```


### Single Trailing Underscore:
You should use the single trailing underscore to avoid overwriting built-in keywords and functions.

```python
# This code will not work

def three_class_instances(class):
	return(class(), class(), class())
```

The code above will not work because the word `class` in Python is a reserved word. However, the same code could be used by appending a trailing underscore `_` to the name.
```python
def three_class_instances(class_):
	return(class_(), class_(), class_())

# Output: (0, 0, 0)
```


### Single Leading Underscore:
A variable or method with a leading underscore `_` should be ***considered private.***

_Note: This is not enforced in Python; it's more of a cultural best-practice_

```python
class CreditCard:
	def __init__(self, currency, amount):
		self.currency = currency
		self._amount = amount
```

### Double Leading Underscores:
Use double leading underscores to avoid _name mangling_.
Consider the following example:
```python
class CreditCard:
	def __init__(self, currency, amount):
		self.currency = currency
		self.amount = amount
		self.__interest = 0.02
		
		
# Create a new instance of CreditCard
visa = CreditCard("dollar", 100)

# Print the __interest attribute
print(visa.__interes)
# AttributeError: 'CreditCard' object has no attribute '__interest'
```

The `AttributeError` that gets thrown is a result of mangling the attribute `__interest`
The main point of name mangling is to ensure that subclasses do not override attributes and methods.
You can explore this more by running `dir()` on the `CreditCard` object.

```python
>>> print(dir(visa))
['_CreditCard__interest', '__class__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__init_subclass__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', '__weakref__', '_amount', 'currency']
```
You'll notice from the output above that Python created a new attribute called `_CreditCard__interest`


### Dunder Methods:
Dunder methods are ones with leading and trailing double underscores (e.g. `__init__`)


###### See Also:
- [Master the 5 Ways to Use Underscores in Python](https://medium.com/geekculture/master-the-5-ways-to-use-underscores-in-python-cfcc7fa53734)