# Arguments
---
There are three (3) different types of arguments we can give a [[function]]:
+ **[[#Positional Arguments]]**: are arguments that can be called by their position in the function definition
+ **[[#Keyword Arguments]]**: are arguments that can be called by their name
+ **[[#Default Arguments]]**: are arguments that are given default values


## Positional Arguments:
Positional Arguments are arguments whose assignments depend on their position(s) in the function call. 

Consider a function called `calculate_taxi_price()` that allows our users to see how much a taxi would cost to their destination.

```python
def calculate_taxi_price(miles_to_travel, rate, discount):  
	print(miles_to_travel * rate - discount )
```

In this function, `miles_to_travel` is _positioned_ as the first parameter, `rate` is positioned as the second parameter, and `discount` is the third. 

When we call our function, the position of the arguments will be mapped to the positions defined in the function declaration.

```python
# 100 is miles_to_travel
# 10 is rate
# 5 is discount

calculate_taxi_price(100, 10, 5)
```


## Keyword Arguments:
Alternatively, we can use _Keyword Arguments_ where we explicitly refer to what each argument is assigned to in the function call. Notice in the code example below that the arguments do not follow the same order as defined in the function declaration.

```python
calculate_taxi_price(rate=0.5, discount=10, miles_to_travel=100)
```


## Default Arguments:
Lastly, sometimes we want to give our function arguments default values. We can provide a default value to an argument by using the assignment operator (=). This will happen in the function declaration rather than the function call.

Here is an example where the discount argument in our `calculate_taxi_price` function will always have a default value of 10:

```python
def calculate_taxi_price(miles_to_travel, rate, discount = 10):  
	print(miles_to_travel * rate - discount )
```

When using a default argument, we can either choose to call the function without providing a value for a discount (and thus our function will use the default value assigned) or overwrite the default argument by providing our own:

```python
# Using the default value of 10 for discount.
calculate_taxi_price(10, 0.5) 


# Overwriting the default value of 10 with 20
calculate_taxi_price(10, 0.5, 20)
```

---
###### See Also:
[[argument, positional]]
[[argument, keyword]]