# Functions Basics
[[function | functions]] are a convenient way to group our code into reusable blocks.

```python
# syntax for a function
def some_function(a, b):
	return a * b	
```

When using functions you have to always think of both parts: 
	(1) the code that defines the function, and 
	(2) the code that calls the function
	
	
### Constructing Functions:
+ Functions begin with the keyword `def` (function header) and ends in `:`

+ Following the [[def]] keyword is the name of the function
	+ Rules for function names are the same as the rules for variable names
	
+ After the function name in `( )` are the [[argument | arguments]] the function expects, if any, separated by `,`
	+ If a function is written that doesn't expect arguments then leave the `( )` empty
	
+ Lastly, one or more valid, indented Python statements that make up the function body and where the core work of the function takes place
	+ The body will often include a `return` statement, which is used to send back an output value from the function to the statement that called the function.


```python
	# example function with no arguments
	def print_greeting():
		print('Hello World!')
```

+ For a function to execute, a function call must be placed.
	+ Note: A function must be be defined before (positioned above) it is called because of Python's *execution flow* which runs a program line-by-line from top-down
	+ For functions that expect one or more arguments, the function call must also include [[parameter | parameters]]
	
```python
#example function using return
def cylinder_volume(height, radius):
	pi = 3.14159
	return height * pi * radius ** 2

#function call
cylinder_volume(10, 3)
```

### Note(s) on Variable Scope:
**variables** defined within a function are referred to as **local variables** and can only be used/accessed within the body of the function; known as [[4.4.1 -- Scope & Namespaces#Variable Scope | Variable Scope]]
```python
def some_function():
	word = "Hello"
	
print(word)	# This will result in an error
```

One way to avoid this is to define variables outside functions.
```python
word = "Hello"
def some_function():
	print(word)
	
some_function()
```
Notice that we can still access the value of the global variable `word` within `some_function()`.
However, the value of a global variable cannot be modified inside the function. If you want to modify the variable's value inside a function, it should be passed in as an argument.

> Good Practice: It is best to define variables in the smallest scope they will be needed in. Once your program grows the chances of conflicting variable names is less likely.


###### See Also:
- [[4.4.1 -- Scope & Namespaces]]
- [[4.4.1a -- Working with Local and Global Scope]]


### print() vs. return:
Typically we use the [[return]] keyword to send back the result of the function instead of just printing it out. `return` allows us to assign the output of the function to a new variable whereas `print()` outputs results only to the console.

Demonstrating why `print` does not work in functions:
```python
def add_function(num1, num2):
	print(num1 + num2)
	
result = add_function(1, 2)
print(result)

>>> 3 # expected but this is printing from within the function

result = result + 10
print(result)
#>>> TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'NoneType' and int
```

Using `return`:
```python
def add_function(num1, num2):
	return num1 + num2

result = add_function(1,2)
print(result)
# >>> 3	# expected; printing from print() function	

result = result + 10
print(result) # 13 # expected
```



###### See Also:
[Best Practices for writing functions in Python](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rrBJVMyD-Gs&t=4s)