# Reading a CSV File
---

## What is a CSV?
Text files are not the only thing that Python can read, but they’re the only thing that we don’t need any additional parsing library to understand. 
CSV files are an example of a text file that impose a structure to their data. 
CSV stands for Comma-Separated Values and CSV files are usually the way that data from spreadsheet software (like Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets) is exported into a portable format. 

A spreadsheet that looks like the following:

| Name           | Username      | Email                  |
| -------------- | ------------- | ---------------------- |
| Roger Smith    | rsmith        | wigginsryan@yahoo.com  |
| Michelle beck  | mlbeck        | hcosta@hotmail.com     |
| Ashley Barker  | a_bark_x      | a_bark_x@turner.com    |
| Lynn Gonzales  | goodmanjames  | lynniegonz@hotmail.com |
| Jennifer Chase | chasej        | jchase@ramirez.com     |
| Charles Hoover | choover       | choover89@yahoo.com    |
| Adrian Evans   | adevans       | adevans98@yahoo.com    |
| Susan Walter   | susan82       | swilliams@yahoo.com    |
| Stephanie King | stephanieking | sking@morris-tyler.com |
| Erika Miller   | jessica32     | ejmiller79@yahoo.com   |

 
In a CSV file that same exact data would be rendered like this:
```txt
users.csv
Name,Username,Email
Roger Smith,rsmith,wigginsryan@yahoo.com
Michelle Beck,mlbeck,hcosta@hotmail.com
Ashley Barker,a_bark_x,a_bark_x@turner.com
Lynn Gonzales,goodmanjames,lynniegonz@hotmail.com
Jennifer Chase,chasej,jchase@ramirez.com
Charles Hoover,choover,choover89@yahoo.com
Adrian Evans,adevans,adevans98@yahoo.com
Susan Walter,susan82,swilliams@yahoo.com
Stephanie King,stephanieking,sking@morris-tyler.com
Erika Miller,jessica32,ejmiller79@yahoo.com
```

Notice that the first row of the CSV file doesn’t actually represent any data, just the labels of the data that’s present in the rest of the file. 
The rest of the rows of the file are the same as the rows in the spreadsheet software, just instead of being separated into different cells they’re separated by `','`
## Reading a CSV:
```txt
%% users.csv %%

Name,Username,Email
Roger Smith,rsmith,wigginsryan@yahoo.com
Michelle Beck,mlbeck,hcosta@hotmail.com
Ashley Barker,a_bark_x,a_bark_x@turner.com
Lynn Gonzales,goodmanjames,lynniegonz@hotmail.com
```
Even though we can read these lines as text without a problem, there are ways to access the data in a format better suited for programming purposes. 
In Python we can convert that data into a dictionary using the csv library’s `DictReader` object. 

Here’s how we’d create a list of the email addresses of all of the users in the above table:
```py
import csv

list_of_email_addresses = []
with open('users.csv', newline='') as users_csv:
	user_reader = csv.DictReader(users_csv)
	for row in user_reader:
		list_of_email_addresses.append(row['Email'])
```

In the above code we first import our csv library, which gives us the tools to parse our CSV file. 
We then create the empty list `list_of_email_addresses` which we’ll later populate with the email addresses from our CSV. 
Then we open the `users.csv` file with the temporary variable `users_csv`.

We pass the additional keyword argument `newline=''` to the file opening `open()`  function so that we don’t accidentally mistake a line break in one of our data fields as a new row in our CSV (read more about this in [the Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#id3)).

After opening our new CSV file we use `csv.DictReader(users_csv)` which converts the lines of our CSV file to Python dictionaries which we can use access methods for. 
The keys of the dictionary are, by default, the entries in the first line of our CSV file. 
Since our CSV’s first line calls the third field in our CSV “Email“, we can use that as the key in each row of our `DictReader`.

When we iterate through the rows of our `user_reader` object, we access all of the rows in our CSV as dictionaries (except for the first row, which we used to label the keys of our dictionary). 
By accessing the 'Email' key of each of these rows we can grab the email address in that row and append it to our `list_of_email_addresses`.
 

Also notice that many of these addresses have commas in them! This is okay, we’ll still be able to read it. If we wanted to, say, print out all the addresses in this CSV file we could do the following:
```py
import csv

with open('addresses.csv', newline='') as addresses_csv:
	address_reader = csv.DictReader(addresses_csv, delimiter=';')
	for row in address_reader:
		print(row['Address'])
```
Notice that when we call `csv.DictReader` we pass in the delimiter parameter, which is the string that’s used to delineate separate fields in the CSV. 
We then iterate through the CSV and print out each of the addresses.
```py
import csv

with open('books.csv') as books_csv:
	books_reader = csv.DictReader(books_csv, delimiter='@')
	isbn_list = []
	for book in books_reader:
		isbn_list.append(book['ISBN'])
```
