# Virtual Environments
---
https://www.codecademy.com/courses/learn-python-3/articles/learn-python-pipenv
## What is a virtual environment?
A virtual environment is a Python environment such that the Python interpreter, libraries and scripts installed into it are isolated from those installed in other virtual environments, and (by default) any libraries installed in a “system” Python, i.e., one which is installed as part of your operating system.

A virtual environment is a directory tree which contains Python executable files and other files which indicate that it is a virtual environment.

Common installation tools such as [setuptools](https://pypi.org/project/setuptools/) and [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) work as expected with virtual environments. In other words, when a virtual environment is active, they install Python packages into the virtual environment without needing to be told to do so explicitly.

## Why Use Virtual Environments?
What problems do virtual environment solve?
The more Python projects you have, the more likely it is that you need to work with different versions of Python libraries, or even Python itself.
Newer versions for one project can break compatibility in another project.

> Use a virtual environment to manage the dependencies for your project, both in development and in production.

### Virtual Environment Variants:
There are different environment managers that can be used within Python:
- venv
- virtualenv
- pyenv
- conda

#### Default:
Python3 (starting with v.3.3) comes bundled with the `venv`  module to create virtual environments.
Python2  you need to `virtualenv` 
As of Python v.3.6,  `pyenv`  has been deprecated; although this can still be used by installing directly


See [**PEP 405**](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0405) for more information about Python virtual environments.

---

# Python Virtual Environment Overview
See Also: [[11.2 -- Virtual Environment Cheat Sheet]]

## venv
#### Creating an environment (venv)
creates a project folder and a `venv` folder within:

```shellsession
$ mkdir myproject
$ cd myproject
$ python3 -m venv myvenv
```

#### Activate the environment (venv)
```py
#Windows:
$ myenv/Scripts/activate

#Mac/Linux:
$ source myvenv/bin/activate
```
<br>

## virtualenv
#### Create an environment (virtualenv)
create a project folder and a `virtualenv` folder within:
```shellsession
$ mkdir project1
$ cd !$
$ virtualenv project1_env
```

#### Activate the environment (virtualenv)
```py
#Windows:
$ project1_env/Scripts/activate

#Linux:
$ source project1_env/bin/activate
```
<br>

## pyenv
[Managing Multiple Python Versions with Pyenv](https://realpython.com/intro-to-pyenv/)

```sh
-- Create Environment
$ pyenv virtualenv <python_version> <environment_name>
$ pyenv activate <environment_name>
/* or */
$ pyenv local <myproject>	/* only works if eval `"$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"` was configured to run in shell */
$ pyenv deactivate
```


```sh

$ pyenv install --list | grep "3\.[678]"
$ pyenv install -v 3.8.3

$ pyenv uninstall 3.7.3
/* or */
$ ls ~/.pyenv/versions/
$ rm -rf ~/.pyenv/versions/3.6.8

$ pyenv versions		/* lists installed versions */
$ pyenv global 3.9.3 	/* sets global version */
```
<br>

## conda:
Create an environment:
```py
conda create --name <env_name>
# or
conda create -n <env_name>
```

Create an environment with specific dependencies:
```py
conda create -n myenv numpy		# creates an environment with a specific package

conda create --name myenv python=3/5	# creates an environment with a specific version of python

conda env list
```