# General OOP
## What is OOP?
_Object Oriented Programming_ is a programming construct where developers can create their own objects with custom [[method | methods]] and [[attribute | attributes]].

In Object-Oriented Programming you write [[class | classes]] that represent real-world things and situations, and then you create [[object | objects]] based on these classes.

When you write a class, you define the general behavior that a whole category of objects can have. 

Making an object from a class is called [[instantiation]].

> A class instance is also called an object. The pattern of defining classes and creating objects to represent the responsibilities of a program is known as _Object Oriented Programming_ or _OOP_. 

###### See Also:
[[10.0a -- OOP Terminology]]
[[10.0b -- Advantages of OOP]]


## Four Pillars of OOP 
1. [[#Inheritance]]
See Also: [[10.0c -- Multiple Inheritance]]
3. [[#Polymorphism]]
4. [[#Abstraction]]
5. [[#Encapsulation]]
	1. [[#Getters Setters and Deleters]]
6. [[#Summary]]


### Inheritance
Inheritance is the ability to create a class that inherits attributes and behaviors from an existing class. The newly created class is the derived class (sometimes called the child class or sub-class) and the existing class is the base class (sometimes called the parent or superclass).

To better understand _inheritance_, consider this example:
```python
class Dog:
	
	def bark(self):
		print('woof!')
		
class Cat:
	
	def meow(self):
		print('meow')
```

These two classes define two distinct animals with their own methods of communication. 
What if we wanted to give both of these classes the ability to eat by calling a method called `eat()`?

We could write the method twice in both classes but then we would be repeating code! 
We also may need to write it inside every specific animal class we ever create. Instead, we can utilize the power of inheritance.

Since both `Cat` and `Dog` fall under the classification of `Animal` we can create a _parent class_ to represent properties and methods they can both share! Here is what it might look like:
```python
class Animal:
	def eat(self):
		print("Yum, eating food!")
```

We now have an `Animal` class with an `eat()` method, but how do we actually get the `Dog` and `Cat` class to **inherit** this method so it can be shared with both classes? 
```python
class Animal:
	def eat(self):
		print("Yum, eating food!")
		
class Dog(Animal):
	def bark(self):
		print('woof!')
		
class Cat(Animal):
	def meow(self):
		print('meow!')
		

rover = Dog()
felix = Cat()

rover.eat()		# Yum, eating food!
felix.eat()		# Yum, eating food!
```

###### See Also:
[[10.0c -- Multiple Inheritance]]

### Polymorphism
_polymorphism_ is the ability to apply an identical operation onto different types of objects. This can be useful when an object type may not be known at the program runtime.
```python
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
	def make_noise(self):
		print(f'{self.name} says, Grrrr.')
		
		
class Cat(Animal):
	def make_noise(self):
		print(f'{self.name} says, Meow!')
		
		
class Robot:
	def make_noise(self):
		print(f'beep.boop...BEEP!!!')
		
"""
	The example above shows an `Animal` class, its subclass `Cat`, and another standalone class `Robot`. 
	Each class has a method `.make_noise()` with different outputs. 
	The identical method name with different behaviors is a form of polymorphism.
"""

animal1 = Animal("Bear")
pet1 = Cat("Felix")
vacuum = Robot()

objects = [animal1, pet1, vacuum]
for o in objects:
	o.make_noise()
	
# "Bear says, Grrrr."
# "Felix says, Meow!"
# "beeb.boop...BEEP!!!"
```

With the classes instantiated and added to a list, we are able to iterate through the list and call `.make_noise()`. This is done without needing to know what type of class `.make_noise()` belongs to.

### Abstraction
When a program starts to get big, classes might start to share functionality or we may lose sight of the purpose of a class’s inheritance structure. In order to alleviate issues like this, we can use the concept of _abstraction_.

**Abstraction** helps with the design of code by defining necessary behaviors to be implemented within a class structure. By doing so, abstraction also helps avoid leaving out or overlapping class functionality as class hierarchies get larger.

```python
from abc import ABC, abstractmethod 

class Animal(ABC):  
	def __init__(self, name):    
		self.name = name   

	@abstractmethod  
	def make_noise(self):    
	pass 

class Cat(Animal):  
	def make_noise(self):    
		print("{} says, Meow!".format(self.name)) 

class Dog(Animal):  
	def make_noise(self):    
		print("{} says, Woof!".format(self.name)) 


kitty = Cat("Maisy")
doggy = Dog("Amber")

kitty.make_noise() # "Maisy says, Meow!"
doggy.make_noise() # "Amber says, Woof!"
```

Above we have `Cat` and `Dog` classes that inherit from `Animal`. The `Animal` class now inherits from an imported class `ABC`, which stands for Abstract Base Class.

This is the first step to making `Animal` an abstract class that cannot be instantiated. The second step is using the imported decorator `@abstractmethod` on the empty method `.make_noise()`.

The below line of code would throw an error.
```python
an_animal = Animal("Scruffy") 
# TypeError: Can't instantiate abstract class Animal with abstract method make_noise
```
The abstraction process defines what an `Animal` is but does not allow the creation of one. The `.__init__()` method still requires a name, since we feel all animals deserve a name.

The `.make_noise()` method exists since all animals make some form of noise, but the method is not implemented since each animal makes a different noise. Each subclass of `Animal` is now required to define their own `.make_noise()` method or an error will occur.

These are some of the ways abstraction supports the design of an organized class structure.

### Encapsulation
_Encapsulation_ is the process of making methods and data hidden inside the object they relate to. 
Languages accomplish this with what are called access modifiers like:
- Public
- Protected
- Private

In general, public members can be accessed from anywhere, protected members can only be accessed from code within the same module and private members can only be accessed from code within the class that these members are defined.

Python doesn’t have any inbuilt mechanism to prevent access from any member (i.e. all members are public in Python). However, there is a common convention amongst developers to use a single underscore `self._x` to indicate that a member is protected. Accessing a protected member outside of the module will not cause an error, it is added by developers to inform other developers that they should be careful when accessing this member in such a manner.

Similarly, we can declare a member as private with two leading underscores `self.__x`. This is more than just a convention in Python because of a mechanism called _name mangling_. Members that are preceded with two underscores have their names modified in the background to `obj._Classname__x`. While they can still be publicly accessed, the purpose of this mechanism is to prevent clashing member names of any inheriting classes that might define a member of the same name.

Note: that this is different from the dunder methods we discussed earlier. 

A dunder method has two leading and two trailing underscores and is treated differently than a private member. 
One important difference is that dunder method names are not mangled.

#### Getters, Setters and Deleters
Using _getter_, _setter_, and _deleter_ functions are one way to implement encapsulation within Python where the state of class attributes can be handled within the class. These functions are useful in making sure that the data being handled is appropriate for the defined class functionality.
```python
def Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self._name = name
		self._age = None
		
	def get_age(self):
		return self._age
	
	def set_age(self, new_age):
		if isinstance(new_age, int):
			self._age = new_age
		else:
			raise TypeError
			
	def delete_age(self):
		print("_age Deleted")
		del self._age
		
		
a = Animal("Rufus")
print(a.get_age())	# None

a.set_age(10)
print(a.get_age())	# 10

a.set_age("Ten")	# Raises TypeError

a.delete_age()		# "_age Deleted"
print(a.get_age())	# Raises AttributeError

# Above we see `a.get_age()` gets the `_age` value, `a.set_age(10)` sets the value and `a.delete_age()` deletes the attribute entirely. 
# A `TypeError` occurs with `a.set_age("Ten")` because the defined logic in the setter is looking only for an integer. 
# An `AttributeError` occurs with `a.get_age()` after the attribute was deleted.
```
Looking at the `Animal` class above there is an `_age` attribute with a single underscore. This notates it is intended to be used only within the module. There are then 3 methods related to `age` each with a different purpose. These define the getter, setter, and deleter of the specific property.

The first method related to `age` is a getter and returns `self._age`. The setter is implemented below that. It includes logic that ensures that the value passed to `new_age` is an integer. If so, `self._age = new_age`. If not, raise an error. This is useful and shows the power of using these functions for encapsulation.

The deleter is implemented below the setter. It outputs a confirmation message and uses the `del` keyword to delete the `self._age` attribute.

### Summary
#### Inheritance
Python allows classes to inherit on multiple levels. Meaning a class can inherit from a base class as well as a derived class. Python also supports multiple inheritance, where one class can inherit from any number of other classes. This allows us to describe complex relationships between objects with minimal repeated code.

#### Polymorphism
Polymorphism is a concept that allows functions and objects to behave in different ways depending on context. There is the polymorphism of functions like `len()` or the addition operator `+`, which can act differently depending on the provided data.

#### Abstraction
Python supports the concept of abstraction by allowing objects with methods that have the same name, to be called in a general manner. Further, Python provides the Abstract Base Class (ABC) for us to create a more clearly defined interface.

#### Encapsulation
Python’s approach to encapsulation is unique compared to most other object-oriented programming languages. In Python, all members of an object are publicly accessible but there are conventions to indicate to developers that a member is intended to be protected or private.