## Elements of OOP (General):
- [[#Class]]
	- [[#Class Variables]]
- [[#Methods]]
	- [[#Methods with Arguments]]
	- [[#Overriding Methods]]
	- [[#super]]
- [[#Instantiation]]
- [[#Abstraction]]


### Class:
A [[class]] is a template for a data type. It describes the kinds of information that class will hold and how a programmer will interact with that data. 

In Python, define a class using the `class` keyword. 

> PEP 8 recommends capitalizing the names of classes to make them easier to identify.

```python
class CoolClass:
	pass


# We used the `pass` keyword in Python to indicate that the body of the class was intentionally left blank so we don’t cause an `IndentationError`. 
```

In the above example we created a class and named it `CoolClass`. 

#### Class Variables:
When we want the same data to be available to every instance of a class we use a [[class variable]]. 

> A **class variable** is a variable that’s the same for every instance of the class.

You can define a class variable by including it in the indented part of your class definition, and you can access all of an object’s class variables with `object.variable` syntax.
```python
class Musician:
	title = "Rockstar"


drummer = Musician()
print(drummer.title)
# prints "Rockstar"
```

Above we defined the class Musician, then instantiated drummer to be an object of type Musician. 

We then printed out the drummer’s `.title` attribute, which is a class variable that we defined as the string “Rockstar”.

If we defined another musician, like `guitarist = Musician()` they would have the same `.title` attribute.

### Methods:
Methods are functions that are defined as part of a class. The first argument in a [[method]] is always the object that is calling the method. 

Convention recommends that we name this first argument `self`. Methods always have at least this one argument.

We define methods similarly to functions, except that they are indented to be part of the class.

```python
class Dog:
	dog_time_dilation = 7

	def time_explanation(self):
		print("Dogs experience {} years for every 1 human year.".format(self.dog_time_dilation))


pipi_pitbull = Dog()
pipi_pitbull.time_explanation()
# Prints "Dogs experience 7 years for every 1 human year."
```

Above we created a Dog class with a `time_explanation` method that takes one argument, `self`, which refers to the object calling the function. 

We created a `Dog` named "pipi_pitbull" and called the `.time_explanation()` method on our new object for Pipi.

Notice we didn’t pass any arguments when we called `.time_explanation()` , but were able to refer to self in the function body. 

==When you call a method it automatically passes the object calling the method as the first argument.==

#### Methods with Arguments:
Methods can also take more arguments than just self:
```python
class DistanceConverter:
	kms_in_a_mile = 1.609

	def how_many_kms(self, miles):
		return miles * self.kms_in_a_mile


converter = DistanceConverter()
kms_in_5_miles = converter.how_many_kms(5)

print(kms_in_5_miles)
# prints "8.045"
```

Above we defined a `DistanceConverter` class, instantiated it, and used it to convert 5 miles into kilometers. 

Notice again that even though `how_many_kms` takes two arguments in its definition, we only pass `miles`, because `self` is implicitly passed (and refers to the object converter).


#### Overriding Methods:
When implementing inheritance, a child class may want to change the behavior of a method from its parent class. 

In Python, all we have to do is _override_ a method definition. An overridden method in a subclass is one that has the same definition as the parent class but contains different behavior.
```python
# without overriding methods
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
	def make_noise(self):
		print("{} says, GRRR".format(self.name))
		
pet1 = Animal ("Rex")
pet1.make_noise() # Rex says, GRRR
```

The animal class above has one attribute, `self.name` and one method, `.make_noise()`. 

The `.make_noise()` method outputs a somewhat generic animal sound, `"Rex says, Grrrr"`. If we define a subclass of `Animal` we may want to make a different sound.

```python
# WITH overriding methods
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
	def make_noise(self):
		print("{} says, GRRR".format(self.name))


class Dog(Animal):
	
	def make_noise(self):
		print("{} says, BARK".format(self.name))
		
pet2 = Dog("Rex")
pet2.make_noise() # Rex says, BARK
```

#### `super()`
When overriding methods we sometimes want to still access the behavior of the parent method. 

In order to do that we need a way to call the method of the parent class. Python gives us a way to do that using `super()`.

`super()` gives us a _proxy object_. With this proxy object, we can invoke the method of an object’s parent class (also called its superclass). We call the required function as a method on `super()`:
```python
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name, sound="Grrrr"):
		self.name = name
		self.sound = sound
		
	def make_noise(self):
		print(f'{self.name} says, {self.sound}')
		
class Cat(Animal):
	def __init__(self, name):
		super().__init__(name, "Meow!")

		
pet_cat = Cat("Rachel")
pet_cat.make_noise()	#"Rachel says, Meow!"

```

In the above example, we have the class `Animal` and the subclass `Cat`. 

`Animal` has 2 attributes, `name` and `sound` and one method, `.make_noise()`. 

The `.make_noise()` method outputs the `name` and `sound` of an instance.

The `Cat` subclass has an `.__init__()` method which means the `.__init__()` method of its superclass, `Animal` will not be called when creating an instance of `Cat`. 

The `.__init__()` method from the subclass is overriding the one from the superclass.

To still invoke the `.__init__()` method of `Animal`, `super().__init__(name, "Meow!")` is called inside the subclass `.__init__()` method. 

This additional logic allows us to add the `"Meow"` sound from within the `Cat` class, but still use the `.__init__()` method of the `Animal` class.

`super()` is used in subclasses to invoke a needed behavior from the superclass alongside the behavior of a subclass method.


### Instantiation:
A class does not accomplish anything simply by being defined. 

A class must be **instantiated**. 

In other words, we must _create an instance of the class_, in order to breathe life into the schematic.

Instantiating a class looks a lot like calling a function. 
We would be able to create an instance of our defined `CoolClass` as follows:
```python
cool_instance = CoolClass()
```

Above, we created an object by adding parentheses to the name of the class. 

We then assigned that new instance to the variable `cool_instance` for safe-keeping so we can access our instance of CoolClass at a later time.

Instantiation takes a class and turns it into an object, the `type()` function does the opposite of that. 

When called with an object, it returns the class that the object is an instance of.
```python
print(type(cool_instance))

# prints "<class '__main__.CoolClass'>"
```
We then print out the `type()` of cool_instance and it shows us that this object is of type `__main__.CoolClass`.

In Python `__main__` means “this current file that we’re running” and so one could read the output from `type()` to mean “the class CoolClass that was defined here, in the script you’re currently running.”


