# Splitting Strings
---
#### Splitting Strings I
`.split()` is performed on a string, takes one argument, and returns a list of substrings found between the given argument (which in the case of .split() is known as the delimiter). 

The following syntax should be used:
`string_name.split(delimiter)`

If you do not provide an argument for .split() it will default to splitting at spaces.

For example, consider the following strings:

```py 
man_its_a_hot_one = "Like seven inches from the midday sun" 

print(man_its_a_hot_one.split())

# => ['Like', 'seven', 'inches', 'from', 'the', 'midday', 'sun']
```

.split returned a list with each word in the string. Important to note: if we run .split() on a string with no spaces, we will get the same string in return.

 
#### Splitting Strings II
If we provide an argument for .split() we can dictate the character we want our string to be split on. This argument should be provided as a string itself.

Consider the following example:
```py
greatest_guitarist = "santana"

print(greatest_guitarist.split('n'))

# => ['sa', 'ta', 'a']
```
We provided 'n' as the argument for .split() so our string “santana” got split at each 'n' character into a list of three strings.

What do you think happens if we split the same string at 'a'?
```py
...
print(greatest_guitarist.split('a'))

# => ['s', 'nt', 'n', ' ']
```

Notice that there is an unexpected extra `''` string in this list. When you split a string on a character that it also ends with, you’ll end up with an empty string at the end of the list.

You can use any string as the argument for .split(), making it a versatile and powerful tool.

  

#### Splitting Strings III
We can also split strings using escape sequences. Escape sequences are used to indicate that we want to split by something in a string that is not necessarily a character. The two escape sequences we will cover here are:

-   \n Newline
-   \t Horizontal Tab
    

Newline or `\n` will allow us to split a multi-line string by line breaks and `\t` will allow us to split a string by tabs. `\t` is particularly useful when dealing with certain datasets because it is not uncommon for data points to be separated by tabs.

Let’s take a look at an example of splitting by an escape sequence:
```py
smooth_chorus = \

"""And if you said, "This life ain't good enough."
I would give my world to lift you up
I could change my life to better suit your mood
Because you're so smooth"""

chorus_lines = smooth_chorus.split('\n')

print(chorus_lines)
```
This code is splitting the multi-line string at the newlines (\n) which exist at the end of each line and saving it to a new list called chorus_lines. Then it prints chorus_lines which will produce the output:

```py
['And if you said, "This life ain\'t good enough."', 'I would give my world to lift you up', 'I could change my life to better suit your mood', "Because you're so smooth"]
```

The new list contains each line of the original string as it’s own smaller string. Also, notice that Python automatically escaped the ' character when it created the new list.