# Modules and Packages
--- 

A module is a collection of Python declarations intended broadly to be used as a tool. 
Modules are also often referred to as “libraries” or “packages” — a package is really a directory that holds a collection of modules.

Usually, modules will provide functions or data types that we can then use to solve a general problem, allowing us more time to focus on the software that we are building to solve a more specific problem.

There are three options for importing modules:

```py
# option 1
import module
module.function()

# option 2
from module import function
function()

# option 3 --> discouraged as it can lead to a cluttered local namespace
from module import *
function
```


### Example Usage:
```py
# datetime module
from datetime import datetime

current_time = datetime.now()
print(current_time)
```

```py
# random module
import random

random_list = [random.randint(1, 100) for x in range(101)]
 
randomer_number = random.choice(random_list)

print(randomer_number)
```

### Aliasing:
Notice that when we want to invoke the `randint()` function we call `random.randint()`
This is the default behavior where Python offers a *namespace* for the module. A namespace isolates the functions, classes, and variables defined in the module from the code in the file doing the importing. Your local namespace, meanwhile, is where your code is run.

Python defaults to naming the namespace after the module being imported, but sometimes this name could be ambiguous or lengthy. 
Sometimes, the module’s name could also conflict with an object you have defined within your local namespace.

Fortunately, this name can be altered by aliasing using the as keyword:
`import module_name as name_you_pick_for_the_module`

Aliasing is most often done if the name of the library is long and typing the full name every time you want to use one of its functions is laborious.

You might also occasionally encounter import `*`. The * is known as a “wildcard” and matches anything and everything.  
This syntax is considered dangerous because it could pollute our local namespace. 

Pollution occurs when the same name could apply to two possible things. 
For example, if you happen to have a function floor() focused on floor tiles, using from math import * would also import a function `floor()` that rounds down floats.




> **PyPI** is a repository for open-source third-party Python packages similar to *RubyGems* and *NPM* for Node.js
> 
> **PIP** comes installed with Python by default if Python was installed from python.org or through the Anaconda distribution