# Dunder Methods in OOP
%%Redirect from%% [[10.1 -- OOP in Python]]

The code below shows that when working with different object types like, `int`, `str` or `list`, the `+` operator performs different functions. This is known as _operator overloading_ and is another form of polymorphism.
```python
# int + int returns an int
2 + 4 == 6

# str + str returns a str
"Is this " + "addition?" ==  "Is this addition?"

# list + list returns a list
[1, 2] + [3, 4] == [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

To understand this behavior, we must first discuss _dunder methods_. 
Every defined class in Python has access to a group of these special methods. For example, the constructor `__init__()` and the string representation method `__repr__()`. 

The name dunder method is derived from the **D**ouble **UNDER**scores that surround the name of each method.

Defining a class’s dunder methods is a way to perform operator overloading.

```python
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
	def __add__(self, another_animal):
		return Animal(self.name + another_animal.name)
	

a1 = Animal("Horse")
a2 = Animal("Penguin")
a3 = a1 + a2

print(a1)	# Horse
print(a2)	# Penguin
print(a3)	#HorsePenguin
```
The above code has the class `Animal` with a dunder method, `.__add__()`.

This defines the `+` operator behavior when used on objects of this class type. 

The method returns a new `Animal` object with the names of the operand objects concatenated. 

In this example, we have created a `"HorsePenguin"`.

The line of code `a3 = a1 + a2` invokes the `.__add__()` method of the left operand, `a1`, with the right operand `a2` passed as an argument. 

The `name` attributes of `a1` and `a2` are concatenated using the `.__add__()` parameters, `self` and `another_animal`. The resulting string is used as the name of a new `Animal` object which is returned to become the value of `a3`.