## OOP Terminology

**Class**
A user-defined prototype for an object that defines a set of attributes that characterize any object of the class. The attributes are data members (class variables and instance variables) and methods, accessed via dot notation. 
[[10.2 -- Elements of OOP (General)#Class]]

**Class Variable**
A variable that is shared by all instances of a class. Class variables are defined within a class but outside any of the class's methods. Class variables are not used as frequently as instance variables are.
[[10.2 -- Elements of OOP (General)#Class Variables]]

**Function Overloading**
The assignment of more than one behavior to a particular function. The operation performed varies by the types of objects or arguments involved.

**Instance Variable**
A variable that is defined inside a method and belongs only to the current instance of a class.

**Inheritance**
The transfer of the characteristics of a class to other classes that are derived from it.

**Instance**
An individual object of a certain class. An object obj that belongs to a class Circle, for example, is an instance of the class Circle.

**Instantiation**
The creation of an instance of a class.
[[10.2 -- Elements of OOP (General)#Instantiation]]

**Method**
A special kind of function that is defined in a class definition.
[[10.2 -- Elements of OOP (General)#Methods]]

**Object**
A unique instance of a data structure that's defined by its class. An object comprises both data members (class variables and instance variables) and methods.

**Operator Overloading**
The assignment of more than one function to a particular operator.