# Multiple Inheritance
Multiple inheritance is when a subclass inherits from more than one superclass.

One form of multiple inheritance is when there are multiple levels of inheritance. This means a class inherits members from its superclass and its super-superclass.
```python
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
	def say_hi(self):
		print(f'{self.name} says, Hi!')
		

class Cat(Animal):
	pass

class Angry_Cat(Cat):
	pass

my_pet = Angry_Cat("Mr. Cranky")
my_pet.say_hi()	# Mr. Cranky says, Hi!
```

In the above example, `Angry_Cat` inherits from `Cat` and `Cat` inherits from `Animal`. Both `Angry_Cat` and `Cat` have access to the `Animal` class `name` attribute and `.say_hi()` method. Any feature added to `Cat`, `Angry_Cat` will also have access to.


Another form of multiple inheritance involves a subclass that inherits directly from two classes and can use the attributes and methods of both.
```python
class Animal:
	def __init__(self, name):
		self.name = name
		
class Dog(Animal):
	def action(self):
		print(f'{self.name} wags tail. Awww')
		
class Wolf(Animal):
	def action(self):
		print(f'{self.name} bites. Ouch!')
		
class Hybrid(Dog, Wolf):
	def action(self):
		super().action()
		Wolf.action(self)
		

my_pet = Hybrid("Fluffy")
my_pet.action()		# Fluffy wags tail. Awww
					# Fluffy botes. Ouch!
```

The above example shows the class `Hybrid` is a subclass of both `Dog` and `Wolf` which are also both subclasses of `Animal`. All 3 subclasses can use the features in `Animal` and `Hybrid` can use the features of `Dog` and `Wolf`. But, `Dog` and `Wolf` can not use each other’s features.

This form of multiple inheritance can be useful by adding functionality from a class that does not fit in with the current design scheme of the current classes.

Care must be taken when creating an inheritance structure like this, especially when using the `super()` method. In the above example, calling `super().action()` inside the `Hybrid` class invokes the `.action()` method of the `Dog` class. This is due to it being listed before `Wolf` in the `Hybrid(Dog, Wolf)` definition.

The line `Wolf.action(self)` calls the `Wolf` class `.action()` method. The important thing to note here is that `self` is passed as an argument. This ensures that the `.action()` method in `Wolf` receives the `Hybrid` class instance to output the correct `name`.