# Try and Except:
We can use `try` statements to handle exceptions. There are four clauses you can use:

1. **try**: 
This is the only mandatory clause in a `try` statement. The code in this block is the first thing that Python runs in a `try` statement.
3. **except**:
If Python runs into an exception while running the `try` block, it will jump to the `except` block that handles that exception.
4. **else**: 
If Python runs into no exceptions while running the `try` block, it will run the code in this block after running the `try` block.
6. **finally**: 
Before Python leaves this `try` statement, it will run the code in this `finally` block under any conditions, even if it's ending the program. E.g., if Python ran into an error while running code in the `except` or `else` block, this `finally` block will still be executed before stopping the program.


>The `try` block lets you test a block of code for errors.
>The `else` block will try additional conditions after the first `try` block.
>The `except` block lets you handle the error.
>The `finally` block lets you execute code, regardless of the result of the try/except blocks.

#### Syntax:
```python
try:
	print(x)
except:
	print("An exception occurred")
	
# The `try` block will generate an exception, because x is not defined
```


#### Specifying Exceptions:
We can specify which error we want to handle in an `except` block like this:
```python
try:
	# some code
except ValueError:
	# some code
```

The `try/except` clause above now catches the `ValueError` exception, but not other exceptions.
If we want this handler to address more than one type of exception, we can include a tuple after the `except` clause:
```python
try:
	# some code
except (Value Error, KeyboardInterrupt):
	# some code
```

Alternatively, we can execute different blocks of code depending on the exception using multiple `except` blocks:
```python
try:
	# some code
except ValueError:
	# some code
except KeyboardInterrupt:
	# some code
```


# Accessing Error Messages
When you handle an exception, you can still access its error message like this:
```python
try:
    # some code
except ZeroDivisionError as e:
   print("ZeroDivisionError occurred: {}".format(e))
```

This would print something like this:
```python
ZeroDivisionError occurred: integer division or modulo by zero
```

If you don't have a specific error you're handling, you can still access the message like this:
```python
try:
    # some code
except Exception as e:
   # some code
   print("Exception occurred: {}".format(e))
```

###### See Also:
- [learn more about Python's exceptions](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#bltin-exceptions)
- [Python Try Except](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_try_except.asp)