# Scope & Namespaces

### Learning Summary:
- Variables are stored in namespaces.
- A namespace maps names to objects; it's how Python keeps track of variables.
- The namespace that contains a variable determines when that variable is *in scope* -- that is, when it can be used.
- In a namespace, an object name maps to the object itself.
- Namespaces keep track of all objects, not just user-defined variables.
- Namespaces are isolated
	- Creating, deleting, or changing the value of an object in one namespace will not affect objects with the same name in other namespaces
- The LEGB rule is used to decide the order in which the namespaces are to be searched for scope resolution.


### Variable Scope:
**Variable Scope**, or just **Scope**, refers to which parts of a program a variable can be referenced or used from, and in what order.

In Python, a *name* (sometimes also called a *symbolic name*) is an identifier for an object.

When an object is assigned to a variable, that variable points to some object and we can say that the variable (name) is bound to that object.

```python
color = "cyan"
```

Here, we assign `color` as the _name_ of the string `"cyan"`.

Python uses the system of names so that it can differentiate between each distinct object that we define (such as a string or a function). 

Python keeps track of hundreds and thousands of names in a program by creating a _namespace_.

A **namespace** is a collection of names and the objects that they reference. 

Python will host a dictionary where the keys are the names that have been defined and the mapped values are the objects that they reference.

In the example above, the namespace Python creates would look something like this:
```python
{'color': 'cyan'}
```

So, in this case, if we tried to print the variable `color`:
```python
print(color)
```
Python would search the namespace defined above for a key named `color` and provide the value to be run in our program. Thus we would see the output of `cyan`.

That object can be accessed using that name in various parts of a project -- but not just anywhere.

While multiple namespaces usually exist at once, a variable is only available from inside the region it is created (_lexical scope_)

```python
def printColor():
	color = 'red'

print(color)
# NameError: name 'color' is not defined.
```

## Rules of Scope:
1. Name assignments will create or change local names by defaults
2. Named references, search at most, four scopes (LEGB rule):
	- [[#Local Scope]] 
	- [[#Enclosing Scope]]
	- [[#Global Scope]]
	- [[#Built-in Scope]]

Special Considerations:
[[4.4.1a -- Working with Local and Global Scope]] 


Related:
- [[4.4.2 -- Closures]]
- [[4.4.2 -- Decorators]]


## Local Scope:
A variable created inside a function belongs to the _local scope_ of that function and can only be used inside that function.

```python
def printColor():
	color = 'red'	# color is the local scope

print(color)
```

Whenever we decide to call a function, a new _local scope_ will be generated. Each subsequent function call will generate a new local scope. 

Since the local scope is the deepest level of the four scopes, names in a local scope cannot be accessed or modified by any code called in outer scopes. As a rule of thumb, any names created in a local namespace are usually also locally scoped.

In this case, the name of `color` is scoped locally to the function `favorite_color()`. Since the statement `print(color)` is called outside of the function, it has no access to the local scope (and thus the local namespace) inside of `favorite_color()` and returns an error.

However, if we refactor our code:
```python
def favorite_color():
	color = 'Red'
	print(color)

favorite_color()
```
Then, we wouldn’t have trouble accessing the name of `color` since now the `print()` function is scoped locally, and our output would return `'Red'`.


## Enclosing Scope (Non-Local):
The scope of any objects in the namespace that encloses the current namespace, which may or may not exist (e.g. - Nested Function).

In the example below, the namespace `f` encloses the namespace of `g`, so the name `x` is in the enclosing scope at line 3.
```python
1	def f(x):
2		def g(y):
3			return y
4		g(x)
```

enclosing scope allows any value defined in an enclosing function to be accessed in nested functions below it. We can observe this scope since `nested_function()` can access a variable defined one level above in the enclosing function (`outer_function()`).

We can also observe this scoping rule further if we nested a function one level deeper:
```python
def outer_function():  
	enclosing_value = 'Enclosing Value'   
	
	def nested_function():    
		nested_value = 'Nested Value'     
		
		def second_nested():       
			print(enclosing_value)       
			print(nested_value)      
			
		second_nested()    
	
	nested_function() 
	
outer_function()
```

Would output:
```python
Enclosing Value
Nested Value
```

Enclosing namespaces are created specifically when we work with nested functions and just like with the local namespace, will only exist until the function is done executing.

There are two caveats to be aware of with enclosing scope:
- The flow of scope access only flows upwards. This means that the deepest level has access to every enclosing namespace above it, but not the other way around. For example, if we tried to access `nested_value` from one level above where it was defined:
```python
def outer_function():  
	enclosing_value = 'Enclosing Value'  
	print(nested_value)   
	
	def nested_function():    
		nested_value = 'Nested Value'   
		
	nested_function() 
	
outer_function()
```
The program would produce an error:
```error
NameError: name 'nested_value' is not defined
```

- Immutable objects, such as strings or numbers, can be accessed in nested functions, but cannot be modified. Let’s try to change `enclosing_value` to see this restriction in action:
```python
def outer_function():  
	enclosing_value = 'Enclosing Value'   
	
	def nested_function():    
		enclosing_value += 'changed'   
		
	nested_function()  
	print(enclosing_value) 
outer_function()
```

Would output:
```error
UnboundLocalError: local variable 'enclosing_value' referenced before assignment
```


## Global Scope:
A variable created in the main body of the Python code (module / single-file) is a global variable and belongs to the global scope.

Generally, it includes all non-nested names in the module (file)

Global variables are available from within any scope in the same module / single-file.
```python
x = 300		# x is a global variable

def myFunc():
	print(x)

myfunc()
```

If you need to create a global variable, but are stuck in the local scope, you can use the [[global]] keyword.

The `global` keyword makes the variable accessible outside a local function.
```python
def myfunc():
	global x
	x = 300

myfunc()
```

You can also use `global` to change the value of a global variable inside a function:
```python
x = 300

def myfunc():
	global x
	x = 200

myfunc()
print(x)	# prints 200
```


## Built-in Scope:
The scope of all objects that are built into the Python language.

Ever wonder why functions like `print()` and `str()` are available to us in all our programs? Well, Python knows these function **_names_** because they exist in the highest level of namespaces and thus can be called in any program we write.

Whenever we run a Python application, we are provided a built-in namespace that is created when the interpreter is started and has a lifetime until the interpreter terminates (usually when our program is finished running). Since Python provides the namespace, these objects are accessible without the need to import a separate module.

#### Deep Dive: Built-in
Let’s take a look together at the standard built-in namespace! In order to see it, we can use the following statement:

```python
print(dir(__builtins__))
```

This allows us to access the `builtins` module that Python provides for us. Our output would give us:

```python
['ArithmeticError', 'AssertionError', 'AttributeError', 'BaseException', 'BlockingIOError', 'BrokenPipeError', 'BufferError', 'BytesWarning', 'ChildProcessError', 'ConnectionAbortedError', 'ConnectionError', 'ConnectionRefusedError', 'ConnectionResetError', 'DeprecationWarning', 'EOFError', 'Ellipsis', 'EnvironmentError', 'Exception', 'False', 'FileExistsError', 'FileNotFoundError', 'FloatingPointError', 'FutureWarning', 'GeneratorExit', 'IOError', 'ImportError', 'ImportWarning', 'IndentationError', 'IndexError', 'InterruptedError', 'IsADirectoryError', 'KeyError', 'KeyboardInterrupt', 'LookupError', 'MemoryError', 'ModuleNotFoundError', 'NameError', 'None', 'NotADirectoryError', 'NotImplemented', 'NotImplementedError', 'OSError', 'OverflowError', 'PendingDeprecationWarning', 'PermissionError', 'ProcessLookupError', 'RecursionError', 'ReferenceError', 'ResourceWarning', 'RuntimeError', 'RuntimeWarning', 'StopAsyncIteration', 'StopIteration', 'SyntaxError', 'SyntaxWarning', 'SystemError', 'SystemExit', 'TabError', 'TimeoutError', 'True', 'TypeError', 'UnboundLocalError', 'UnicodeDecodeError', 'UnicodeEncodeError', 'UnicodeError', 'UnicodeTranslateError', 'UnicodeWarning', 'UserWarning', 'ValueError', 'Warning', 'ZeroDivisionError', '__build_class__', '__debug__', '__doc__', '__import__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '__spec__', 'abs', 'all', 'any', 'ascii', 'bin', 'bool', 'bytearray', 'bytes', 'callable', 'chr', 'classmethod', 'compile', 'complex', 'copyright', 'credits', 'delattr', 'dict', 'dir', 'divmod', 'enumerate', 'eval', 'exec', 'exit', 'filter', 'float', 'format', 'frozenset', 'getattr', 'globals', 'hasattr', 'hash', 'help', 'hex', 'id', 'input', 'int', 'isinstance', 'issubclass', 'iter', 'len', 'license', 'list', 'locals', 'map', 'max', 'memoryview', 'min', 'next', 'object', 'oct', 'open', 'ord', 'pow', 'print', 'property', 'quit', 'range', 'repr', 'reversed', 'round', 'set', 'setattr', 'slice', 'sorted', 'staticmethod', 'str', 'sum', 'super', 'tuple', 'type', 'vars', 'zip']
```

Let’s note a few interesting facts about the objects hosted built-in namespace:
-   It contains many of the built-in functions we are able to use in our Python programs such as `str()`, `zip()`, `slice()`, `sorted()`, and many more.
-   It also hosts many of the exceptions that we may encounter in our programs such as `'ArithmeticError'`, `'IndexError'`, `'KeyError'`, and many more.
-   There are even constants like `True` and `False`

In total there are 152 names that include exceptions, functions, types, special attributes, and other Python built-in objects.






###### See Also:
- [The LEGB Rule in Python](https://www.educative.io/edpresso/the-legb-rule-in-python)
- [[access modifiers]]


#### LEGB Examples:
```python
#LEGB examples

#Local
def report():
	x = 'local'
	print(x)
	
#Enclosing (Function within a Function)
x = 'This is Global Level'

def enclosing():
	x = 'Enclosing Level'
	
	def inside():
		print(x)
	inside()
	
enclosing()

#defines enclosing(), sets 'x', defines inside(), and then calls inside()


```
