## Working with Local and Global Scope:
In a simple program it can be easy to determine which variables are in Local vs. Global Scope:
```python

x = 'outside'		# Global Variable 'x'

def report():
	x = 'inside'	# Local Variable `x`
	return x
	
print(x)
print(report())

```

- Calling `print(x)` will return "outside" because the `report()` function is not being called.
- Calling `report()` will print "inside" because we are accessing the local instance of `x`

As Python programs grow, it may be more difficult to understand what is in scope.
```python
# main.py
import random 

first_name = "Jaya"
last_name = "Bodegard"  

def print_variables():  
	random_number = random.randint(0,9)  
	print(first_name)  
	print(last_name)  
	print(random_number)
```

The script above consists of different variables, a function, and an imported module. Right off the bat, it might not be clear what exists in the global namespace.

Thankfully, Python provides a way to see what exists in the global namespace via the `globals()` and `locals()` built-in function.

### `globals()` keyword
The `globals()` function  comes from the built-in namespace (and is thus called a built-in function), and we can access it anywhere in our program (or within any program).

```python
# ...code from above (omitted for brevity)
print(globals())
```

Would output:
```python
{'__name__': '__main__', '__doc__': None, '__package__': None, '__loader__': <_frozen_importlib_external.SourceFileLoader object at 0x7f224a7ae4c0>, '__spec__': None, '__annotations__': {}, '__builtins__': <module 'builtins' (built-in)>, '__file__': 'main.py', '__cached__': None, 'random': <module 'random' from '/usr/lib/python3.8/random.py'>, 'first_name': 'Jaya', 'last_name': 'Bodegard', 'print_variables': <function print_variables at 0x7f224a76a1f0>}
```

Two things we should focus on from this output:

1. The global namespace contains all of the non-nested objects of our program. 

	This includes the variables `first_name` and `last_name` as well as the function `print_variables`. 

	However, the `random_number` variable is not included in the namespace because it is nested inside of our function. 

2. Anytime we use the `import` statement to bring in a new module into our program, instead of adding every name from that module (such as all the names in the `random` module) to our current global namespace, Python will create a new namespace for it. 

	This means there might be potentially multiple global namespaces in a single program. This will be masked away from us in the format seen with the `random` module (`<module 'random' from '/usr/lib/python3.8/random.py'>`).

### `locals()` keyword
Similarly, the `locals()` built-in function can be used to see any generated local namespace.

```python
global_variable = 'global' 

def add(num1, num2):  
	nested_value = 'Inside Function'     
	print(num1 + num2)  
	print(locals()) 

add(5, 10) 
```

Would output:
```python
15
 {'num1': 5, 'num2': 10, 'nested_value': 'Inside Function'}
```

Notice the following:

- We called `locals()` inside the `add()` function to get the local namespace generated when the function is executed. If we called `locals()` outside of a function in our program, it behaves the same as `globals()`.
    
- The value printed from calling `locals()` represents the namespace that only exists inside of the function. Notice even the function parameters `num1` and `num2` exist alongside the variable name `nested_value`. The namespace does not include `global_variable` since it exists outside of the function (in the global namespace).


### Modifying Global Scope:
Sometimes, we may need to modify a global name from within a local scope.

```python
global_var = 10 

def some_function():  
	global_var = 20 

some_function() 

print(global_var)	# 10
```

In the above example, the value of `global_var` remains `10` because `global_var = 20` is in a local scope.

> Python provides the `global` statement to allow for the modification of global names from a local scope.

Using the [[global]] keyword, the `global_val` can now be modified from within `some_function()` 

```python
global_var = 10 

def some_function():  
	global global_var  
	global_var = 20 
	
some_function() 

print(global_var)	# 20
```


### Modifying Scope Behavior: Nonlocal statement
Python provides a way for us to modify names in the enclosing scope, by using the `nonlocal` statement.

Given the following enclosing and nested function, there is a variable defined in the enclosing scope, which is not modifiable from within the nested function.
```python
def enclosing_function():  
	var = "value"   
	
	def nested_function():    
		var = "new_value"   
		
	nested_function()   
	
	print(var) 
	
enclosing_function()
```

The output would be:
```
value
```

as the value of `var` was not modified by the nested function. After using the [[nonlocal]] keyword, the variable is now modifiable from the local scope.

```python
def enclosing_function():  
	var = "value"   
	
	def nested_function():    
		nonlocal var    
		var = "new_value"   
		
	nested_function()  
	print(var) 
	
enclosing_function()
```

The output would now be:
```
new_value
```

```python
def get_color(position):
  color_list = ['red', 'orange', 'yellow', 'green', 'blue', 'indigo', 'violet']
  print(color_list[position])

color_list[2]

# Accessing a name outside of the proper scope will cause Python to return a NameError since it cannot find the name in any accessible namespace.
```

```python
def use_giftcard(purchase_amount):
	gift_card_balance = 200

	def subtract():
    	nonlocal gift_card_balance
    	gift_card_balance -= purchase_amount
  	subtract()

  	print(gift_card_balance)

use_giftcard(10)
```

> Calling `locals()` outside a function is usually equivalent to calling `globals()` unless `locals()` is called after a new function is defined (even if it called outside of the defined function)