# Recursion: Conceptual
---
### Recursion Example:
Let's say You've heard about a trendy new spot that sells fruit sandwiches. 
What are fruit sandwiches? You have no idea, but you’re eager to find out.

Sadly, when you arrive at the store, the line is out the door and around the block. 
Undeterred, you hatch a plan to find out how many people are in line before you.

You tap the person in front of you and ask them how many people are ahead of them. 
They have no idea, (the line is huge!) so they ask you to wait a moment and tap the person in front of them, repeating this process through the line.

Finally, the second to last person taps the person at the front of the line. Nobody is ahead of them, so they reply “It’s just me so: one person!”. Then this message is repeated back down the line.

The next person says “okay, there was one person ahead of me, I’ll add myself… I can tell the person behind me: 2 people in line.”

Each person waiting for a reply:
1.  receives the message
2.  adds themselves to the count1.
3.  responds to the person tapping them
    

This chain eventually reaches you with the final number. 

You executed a recursive strategy. The “function” of asking a person involved asking a person. The self-referential logic can seem like it goes on forever, but each question brings you closer to the front of the line where no more people are asked about the line.

Your approach had two aspects which are essential to recursive thinking. Break the problem into two possibilities:

1.  There’s nobody left in line, don’t ask   
2.  There’s someone in line, ask them
    
==We repeat Step 2 with a different input which brings us closer to Step 1.==

### Recursion Outline:
Recursion is a strategy for solving problems by defining the problem in terms of itself. For example, to sum the elements of a list we would take the first element and add it to the sum of the remaining elements.

How would we get that sum of remaining elements? Easy! We’d take the first element of the remaining elements and add it to the… Maybe you can understand why recursion can be a tricky subject!

In programming, recursion means a function definition will include an invocation of the function within its own body. Here’s a pseudo-code example:
```
define function -> speller
	if there are no more letters
		print "all done"
	print the first letter
	invoke speller with the given name minus the first letter
```

Let’s break the function into three chunks:

```
 if there are no more letters  
 print "all done"
```
This section is the base case. We are NOT invoking the function under this condition. The equivalent base case from the previous exercise was when we had reached the front of the line.

```
 print the first letter
```
This section solves a piece of the problem. If we want to spell someone’s name, we’ll have to spell at least one letter.

```
 invoke speller with the given name minus the first letter
```
This section is the recursive step, calling the function with arguments which bring us closer to the base case. In this example, we’re reducing the length of the name by a single letter. Eventually, there will be a function call with no letters given as the argument.

For comparison’s sake, here is pseudo-code for an iterative approach to the same problem:
```
define function, speller  
 for each letter in the name argument  
 print the letter  
 print "all done"
```